GENERAL INFORMATION
Capital Riyadh
Currency Saudi Riyal (SAR)
Date Format dd/mm/yyyy

CONTRIBUTIONS: 
Employer :
2.00% : Social Insurance Tax for non-Saudi
employees - occupational hazard
(minimum earnings 400 SAR, maximum
earnings 45,000 SAR) (with effect from
1/2/2022, the General Organization for
Social Insurance (GOSI) confirmed that
social insurance contributions must be
calculated on a daily basis rather than a
monthly basis)

12.00% : Social Insurance Tax for Saudi
employees - occupational hazard,
pension, and unemployment) (minimum
earnings 1,500 SAR, maximum earnings
45,000 SAR) (with effect from 1/2/2022,
the General Organization for Social
Insurance (GOSI) confirmed that social
insurance contributions must be
calculated on a daily basis rather than a
monthly basis)

12.00% to 14.00% : Total Employment Cost

10.00% : Social Insurance Tax for non-Saudi
employees - occupational hazard

10.00% : Total Employee Cost

EMPLOYEE INCOME TAX:
0.00% : Since there is no individual income tax
regime in Saudi Arabia, earnings from
employment are not subject to income
tax.

MINIMUM WAGE
The national minimum wage in Saudi Arabia is 4,000 SAR per month.

PAYROLL
Payroll Cycle : In Saudi Arabia, the payroll frequency is weekly or monthly. The employer must
make the payment for weekly employees once a week and make payments for
monthly paid employees at least once a month.
13th Salary : 13th-month payments are not mandatory. However, employers can pay
performance-based bonuses at their discretion.

WORKING HOURS
General : The working week in Saudi Arabia is typically 48 hours, 8 hours per day, six days a
week. The working day may decrease to 6 hours a day during the time of Ramadan.
Typically, Fridays are a rest day.
Overtime : All work exceeding the standard working hours per week is to be paid as overtime
and is regulated by employment contracts/collective agreements. Daily hours
cannot exceed 11 hours.
From the 8th hour the worker must be paid at a rate of 150% salary.

LEAVES
Annual Leave (vacation) : In Saudi Arabia (Article 109 of the Labor Law), the annual leave entitiement is
dependent on the employee’s seniority as follows:
« For employees with one to five years of service, the employee receives 21 days
of annual leave
« Employees with more than five years of service are entitled to 30 days of annual
leave
Employees may carry over any untaken leave to the following vacation leave with
the employer’s written consent. Employees may request ten additional days of
unpaid leave per year, subject to the employer’s approval.

Public Holidays : The local government decides each year if holidays falling on the weekend are lost
or moved to a working day in lieu.
Religious holidays are determined by the lunar cycle and will show as tentative until
they are confirmed nearer the date of the holiday.

Sick Days : In accordance with Article 117 of the Labor Law, employees are entitled to 120 days
of sick leave per year as below:
o Sick leave with full pay - First 30 days
« Sick leave with 1/3 pay - 60 days after the first 30 days
e Sick leave with no pay - Last 30 days
The Sick leave pay is covered by the Employer.
Employees are required to provide a medical certificate for all sick days.Sick leave
laws apply to employers with more than 20 employees.

Maternity Leave : Female employees are entitled to 10 weeks of paid maternity leave commencing
four weeks before the expected due date. The payment of maternity leave is
dependent on the employee’s seniority.
Employers will compensate employees with service of at least one year at 50.00%
of the employee’s pay rate. Employees with at least three years of service receive
compensation at the rate of 100.00% of the employee’s regular pay.{
An employee receiving full maternity leave entitlement may not also take the
payment of annual leave in the same year. In contrast, an employee receiving
50.00% of their salary as a maternity benefit may also take an annual leave
entitlement of 50.00% in the same year.

Paternity Leave : The father/partner is entitled to 3 days of paid paternity leave after the child’s birth
(Article 113 of the Labour Law).

Parental Leave : here are no provisions in the law regarding parental leave.

Other Leave : Depending on the collective agreement/employment contract terms, an employee
may be allowed additional leave types, once approved between the employer and
employee, for the following:
« Bereavement leave: In the event of the death of an immediate member, an
employee is entitled to two days of bereavement leave.
« Marriage leave: An employee is entitled to 3 days of leave in the event of their
wedding.
« Hajj leave/Pilgrimage leave: As per Article 114 of the Labor Law, an employee
is entitled to 10 to 15 days (including the Eid Al-Adha holiday) to perform Haijj
if the employee has completed at least 2 consecutive years of service with
the employer. However, this entitlement arises only if the employee has not
performed Haj previously.

TERMINATION

Termination Process: The termination process varies according to how the employment agreement
and collective agreement are in place and is based on the type of contract and
reason for termination. The employer must give a valid reason for the dismissal
of an employee; if an employer cannot provide lawful reasoning, compensation
may be issued. If an employee resigns, the employer must issue their final wages
immediately.

Notice Period : In Saudi Arabia, the notice period is dependent on the type of contract in place.
For termination of an employee on open-ended contracts (with an indefinite
term and paid monthly), 60 days’ notice is required. For fixed-term contracts,
the notice period is 30 days.
During the probation period the notice period is 1day.

Severance Pay : EOSG is not payable before the end of the employment relationship.
If the employer ends the employment, the benefit is calculated by adding
¥ month'’s wage for each of the first 5 years and 1 month’s wage for each
of the subsequent years. For fractions of a year, the employee is entitled to
proportionate EOSG. EOSG is calculated on the basis of the employee’s last
salary.
If the employee resigns, they are entitled to 1/3 of the award after service of no
less than 2 consecutive years and not more than 5 years. 2/3 if their service is in
excess of 5 successive years, but less than 10 years; and to the full award if their
service amounts to 10 or more years.
If an employee is called to military service or cannot work because of force
majeure, they are entitled to EOSG. Female employees are entitled to EOSG if
they resign within 6 months of marriage or within 3 months of childbirth.

Probation Period : In Saudi Arabia, the probation periods may vary depending on the employment
contract in place. However, the probation period is typically 90 days and may
be extended subject to the employee’s written consent but cannot exceed 180
days.

VISA (WORKING VISA)
For an employee to acquire a work visa in Saudi Arabia, a third-party national
must be sponsored by an employer. The employer must be registered with the
Ministry of Interior and a file is opened with all the information on the employer’s
foreign employees.
Saudi Arabia’s quota system and nationalization program can make the process
of employing a foreign national relatively complex and restrictive. Applicable
procedures involve a home-country consular process followed by several post-
arrival steps before final residency rights are granted.
Business travelers typically apply for a Business Visit Visa at a Saudi consular
post once they receive a government-approved letter of invitation from a
sponsor in Saudi Arabia. Business Visit Visas are usually valid for three months
(single entry) or 12 months (multiple entry), or up to five years (multiple entry) for
citizens of countries that signed bilateral visa agreements with Saudi Arabia.
The maximum allowable duration of stay under a single-entry visa for three and
six months is 30 days; for visas with other validities it is 90 days. There is no
longer a short-term work option in Saudi Arabia. For long-term work, foreign
nationals can apply for a Work Permit and Resident ID Card, which is valid for up
to one year with the possibility of extensions.
This does not apply to citizens from Bahrain, United Arab Emirates, Kuwait, and
Oman. Citizens from these countries may enter with their ID.
There is a new short-term work visa for certain foreign nationals, available via
an online platform, Qiwa. This new visa enables qualified employees to work in
Saudi Arabia for a visa-sponsoring entity for up to 90 days per visa issuance
in one year. During the course of the one-year period (i.e. from the date of first
entry into KSA), it will be possible to reapply for new temporary work visas at the
end of each 90-day period.
To apply, employers will need to be classified as at least “medium-green” in the
Saudisation scheme, comply with obligations in the Wage Protection System,
and ensure that foreign workers have valid work authorization. The quota will
be limited to 50 visas per employer and visas will not be transferrable to other
entities. It is expected that many employers will take advantage of the new
temporary work visa, as businesses in the KSA have been seeking a legally
compliant solution for short-term work assignments.
More foreign national-friendly programs are expected in Saudi Arabia in the
future as additional foreign labor will be needed to fill positions in the NEOM - a
cross-border city in northwest Saudi Arabia that is planned to be built by 2025.

VAT/GST : The standard of VAT in Saudi Arabia is 15.00%

